# Hydra: Describing API Classes, Operations & More

We're looking at the JSON-LD documentation that describes our API, and right now, we know that we only have one API resource: `DragonTreasure`. But if you look down here in the `supportedClass` section, there are actually a *bunch* of `DragonTreasure`s. There's one called `Entrypoint`, another called `ConstraintViolation`, and another called `ConstraintViolationList`. Those last two are going to come up later when we talk about validation errors, but this `Entrypoint` is really interesting. It's called "The API entrypoint", and it's actually describing what the *homepage* for our API *looks like*. We don't always think about our APIs having a homepage, but they *can* and they *should*.

This is the HTML version of our API homepage, and if you scroll down to the bottom, you can see other formats down here. If you click "JSON-LD"... say "hello" to the homepage for your JSON-LD format. What we're seeing here is *literally* an API resource called `Entrypoint`, whose whole job is to basically tell you where you can find the other API resources. Right now, we just have one called `DragonTreasure`. That's really cool! You can *discover* the entire API by going to this `Entrypoint` and getting more information from the `@context`, which points to this document here.

Anyway, the *point* of JSON-LD is to add those three extra fields to your API resource's `@id`, `@type`, and `@context`. And by using that system, you can use `@context` to point to other documentation to get more metadata or more *context* about your data. But at the top of the JSON-LD documentation, you can see that it points to several *other* documents as well. This is a way to add more meaning to JSON-LD. There's one really important one here called `hydra`, which, in short, is an extension that, like we just discussed, adds *more* to JSON-LD.

Think about it. If we want to describe our API, we need to be able to communicate things like what classes we have, what properties *those* have, whether they're *readable* or *writeable*, and what operations each class has. That communication is done down here, and it's actually part of Hydra. Hydra says that we should have these keys called "Hydra supported classes" with all of these sub-keys under it to describe it.

Put simply, API Platform allows you to fetch your resources as JSON-LD with *additional* `hydra` fields, the end result of which is JSON-LD and Hydra *fully describing* our API. They describe the models we have, the operations... *everything*. And *yes*, if this sounds very similar to OpenAPI, you're *absolutely* correct. Both of them do the same thing: Describe our API. In fact, if you go to `/api/docs.json`, *this* is the OpenAPI description of our API. If we replace the `.json` with  `.jsonld`, *this* is our JSON-LD Hydra description of the *same* API. Why do we have both? Hydra is a bit more powerful, and there are certain things it can describe that OpenAPI doesn't have the ability to describe. But OpenAPI is a lot more common and has a lot of tools built on top of it, like React Admin. API platform gives you *both* in case you need them.

Next: Let's talk about some serious debugging tools with API Platform, and then dive back into *building* our API.
